README.md, before:

# Integration Hub - Beta

A cloud-native platform for seamless and secure exchange of clinical information between disparate digital health systems within NHS Wales.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Mission and Key Objectives](#mission-and-key-objectives)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
- [Core Components](#core-components)
- [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
- [Local Setup](#local-setup)
- [Development](#development)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Security & Compliance](#security--compliance)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Overview

NHS Wales requires a modern solution to connect digital health systems that use incompatible data formats and standards. The Integration Hub is a cloud-native platform providing robust data validation and transformation capabilities to enable the seamless and secure exchange of sensitive clinical information.

This internally-owned product replaces proprietary systems, unlocking agility, reducing costs, and ensuring data flows reliably between internal (NHS Wales) and third-party products to support patient care.

## Mission and Key Objectives

> [!TIP]
> For more information, view [the product brief](https://gig-cymru-nhs-wales.github.io/product-briefs/integration-hub/)

The Integration Hub facilitates the move to a clean, open, and secure-by-design architecture, enables the decommissioning of legacy data centres by being cloud-native, and provides the essential mechanism for data to flow into the National Data Resource (NDR) where services are unable to integrate directly (the preferred approach).

## Architecture

The Integration Hub follows a microservices architecture with event-driven messaging:

1. **HL7 Servers** receive messages from source systems
2. **Transformers** convert messages to target formats such as HL7 v2.5
3. **Message Bus** provides reliable message routing
4. **Senders** deliver transformed messages to destination systems such as PIMS

### Integration Patterns

- **Direct Integration**: Preferred approach where services can integrate directly with the National Data Resource (NDR)
- **Hub-Mediated Integration**: For legacy systems that cannot integrate directly, the Integration Hub facilitates data flow to the NDR
- **Legacy System Bridge**: Enables gradual migration from legacy data centres to cloud-native solutions

### How it works (high-level)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  Source[Source Systems] --> HL7_PHW["hl7_server MLLP (PHW)"]
  Source --> HL7_PARIS["hl7_server MLLP (Paris)"]
  Source --> HL7_CHEMO["hl7_server MLLP (Chemo)"]
  Source --> HL7_PIMS["hl7_server MLLP (PIMS)"]

  HL7_PHW --> SB["Service Bus (pre-transform queues)"]
  HL7_CHEMO --> SB
  HL7_PIMS --> SB

  subgraph Transformers
    T_PHW["hl7_transformer (PHW)"]
    T_CHEMO["hl7_chemo_transformer"]
    T_PIMS["hl7_pims_transformer"]
  end

  SB --> T_PHW
  SB --> T_CHEMO
  SB --> T_PIMS

  T_PHW --> SB2["Service Bus"]
  T_CHEMO --> SB2
  T_PIMS --> SB2

  HL7_PARIS --> SB2
  SB2 --> SENDER["hl7_sender (PHW and Paris)"]
  SB2 --> CHEMO_SENDER["hl7_sender (Chemo)"]
  SB2 --> PIMS_SENDER["hl7_sender (PIMS)"]

  SENDER --> MPI["MPI"]
  CHEMO_SENDER --> MPI
  PIMS_SENDER --> MPI
```

## Repository Structure

```
Integration-Hub-Beta/
├── README.md                    # This file
├── .gitignore                   # Git ignore rules
├── .github/                     # GitHub workflows and configurations
├── ca-certs/                    # Custom CA certificates for corporate networks
├── shared_libs/                 # Shared libraries used across services
│   ├── health_check_lib/        # Common health check functionality
│   ├── message_bus_lib/         # Service Bus communication library
│   └── processor_manager_lib/   # Message processing management
├── local/                       # Local development environment
├── pipeline-ado/                # Azure DevOps pipeline configurations
└── [Service Components]/        # Individual microservices (see below)
```

## Core Components

### HL7 Services

The platform handles HL7 message processing through specialized microservices:

**`hl7_server/`**

- Generic HL7 message receiving server via TCP/MLLP. Also provides acknowledgment responses back to source systems. Other server variants for different business flows (PHW, Paris, Chemocare, PIMS, etc.) reuse or extend this service to implement flow-specific logic while keeping common behaviour centralized.

**`hl7_transformer/`**

- PHW (Public Health Wales) message transformation service.
- Subscribes to PHW-specific messages from the service bus and transforms relevant datetime fields to an MPI format.

**`hl7_chemo_transformer/`**

- Chemocare system message transformation service.
- Subscribes to Chemocare-specific messages from the service bus and transforms them to the HL7v2.5 format by applying Chemocare-specific business rules and data mappings, including mappings from the WRDS (Welsh Reference Data Service.)

**`hl7_pims_transformer/`**

- PIMS (Patient Information Management System) message transformation service.
- Subscribes to PIMS-specific messages from the service bus and transforms them to the HL7v2.5 format by applying PIMS-specific business rules and data mappings, including mappings from the WRDS.

**`hl7_sender/`**

- Message delivery service to target systems (primarily MPI - Master Patient Index).
- Handles connection management and retry logic for reliable delivery.
- Provides delivery confirmation and error handling.

**`hl7_mock_receiver/`**

- Mock receiver for testing and development.
- Simulates target system endpoints (e.g. MPI).
- Provides a realistic testing environment for end-to-end validation.

Each transformer is specialized for its source system's data format and business rules, while the server and sender provide common ingestion and delivery capabilities across all integration profiles.

### Data Flow Profiles

The system supports multiple healthcare system integration profiles:

- **PHW to MPI**
- **Paris to MPI**
- **Chemocare to MPI**
- **PIMS to MPI**

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Python 3.13
- **Package Management**: [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Message Bus**: [Azure Service Bus](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-messaging-overview) (with local emulator support)
- **Database**: Azure SQL Edge (for local development)
- **Architecture**: Microservices with event-driven messaging
- **Cloud Platform**: Azure (cloud-native design)

## Local Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop
- WSL enabled (Windows only)
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For comprehensive local setup instructions, see [`local/README.md`](local/README.md).

## Development

### Shared Libraries

The `shared_libs/` directory contains common functionality:

- **`health_check_lib/`** - Standardized health check endpoints
- **`message_bus_lib/`** - Azure Service Bus integration and messaging patterns
- **`processor_manager_lib/`** - Message processing orchestration and error handling
- **`event_logger_lib/`** - Azure Monitor / Application Insights event logging library

### Service Structure

Each service follows a consistent structure:

```
service_name/
├── Dockerfile              # Container build configuration
├── pyproject.toml          # Python project configuration
├── uv.lock                 # Dependency lock file (generated by UV)
├── service_name/           # Source code
├── tests/                  # Unit and integration tests
└── README.md               # Service-specific documentation
```

### Code Quality

The project uses:

- [**Ruff**](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) - Fast Python linter and formatter
- [**MyPy** ](https://github.com/python/mypy)- Static type checking
- [**Bandit**](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit) - Security linter, detects common security issues in Python code
- [**unittest**](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html) - Unit testing framework

## Deployment

### Azure DevOps Pipelines

The `pipeline-ado/` directory contains build pipelines for the [services listed](#HL7-Services).

#### **Release & Validation**:

- `release-apps.yml` - Application deployment pipeline
- `pr-validation.yml` - Pull request validation
- `templates/` - Reusable pipeline templates

### Environment Configuration

Each service can be configured through environment files in the `local/` directory:

- `phw-hl7-server.env`
- `phw-hl7-transformer.env`
- `mpi-hl7-sender.env`
- `mpi-hl7-mock-receiver.env`
- And profile-specific configurations...

## Security & Compliance

- Designed for sensitive clinical data handling
- Secure-by-design architecture principles
- Supports corporate network configurations
- Implements proper SSL/TLS certificate management
- Event-driven architecture enables comprehensive audit trails
- Cloud-native security controls and monitoring

## Contributing

1. Follow the established service structure
2. Include comprehensive tests
3. Update documentation
4. Align with secure-by-design principles

---

**Note**: This is a beta version of the Integration Hub platform. Please report any issues or feedback to help improve the system and support DHCW's digital transformation mission.

Commit message:

feat: add panel with link to architecture on the wiki

README.md, after:

# Integration Hub - Beta

A cloud-native platform for seamless and secure exchange of clinical information between disparate digital health systems within NHS Wales.

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Mission and Key Objectives](#mission-and-key-objectives)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
- [Core Components](#core-components)
- [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
- [Local Setup](#local-setup)
- [Development](#development)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Security & Compliance](#security--compliance)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Overview

NHS Wales requires a modern solution to connect digital health systems that use incompatible data formats and standards. The Integration Hub is a cloud-native platform providing robust data validation and transformation capabilities to enable the seamless and secure exchange of sensitive clinical information.

This internally-owned product replaces proprietary systems, unlocking agility, reducing costs, and ensuring data flows reliably between internal (NHS Wales) and third-party products to support patient care.

## Mission and Key Objectives

> [!TIP]
> For more information, view the [product brief](https://gig-cymru-nhs-wales.github.io/product-briefs/integration-hub/)

The Integration Hub facilitates the move to a clean, open, and secure-by-design architecture, enables the decommissioning of legacy data centres by being cloud-native, and provides the essential mechanism for data to flow into the National Data Resource (NDR) where services are unable to integrate directly (the preferred approach).

## Architecture

The Integration Hub follows a microservices architecture with event-driven messaging:

1. **HL7 Servers** receive messages from source systems
2. **Transformers** convert messages to target formats such as HL7 v2.5
3. **Message Bus** provides reliable message routing
4. **Senders** deliver transformed messages to destination systems such as PIMS

### Integration Patterns

- **Direct Integration**: Preferred approach where services can integrate directly with the National Data Resource (NDR)
- **Hub-Mediated Integration**: For legacy systems that cannot integrate directly, the Integration Hub facilitates data flow to the NDR
- **Legacy System Bridge**: Enables gradual migration from legacy data centres to cloud-native solutions

> [!NOTE]
> For a more detailed overview of the architecture, see the [wiki](https://dev.azure.com/NHS-Wales-Digital/INSE/_wiki/wikis/INSE.wiki/4403/Architecture)

### How it works (high-level)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  Source[Source Systems] --> HL7_PHW["hl7_server MLLP (PHW)"]
  Source --> HL7_PARIS["hl7_server MLLP (Paris)"]
  Source --> HL7_CHEMO["hl7_server MLLP (Chemo)"]
  Source --> HL7_PIMS["hl7_server MLLP (PIMS)"]

  HL7_PHW --> SB["Service Bus (pre-transform queues)"]
  HL7_CHEMO --> SB
  HL7_PIMS --> SB

  subgraph Transformers
    T_PHW["hl7_transformer (PHW)"]
    T_CHEMO["hl7_chemo_transformer"]
    T_PIMS["hl7_pims_transformer"]
  end

  SB --> T_PHW
  SB --> T_CHEMO
  SB --> T_PIMS

  T_PHW --> SB2["Service Bus"]
  T_CHEMO --> SB2
  T_PIMS --> SB2

  HL7_PARIS --> SB2
  SB2 --> SENDER["hl7_sender (PHW and Paris)"]
  SB2 --> CHEMO_SENDER["hl7_sender (Chemo)"]
  SB2 --> PIMS_SENDER["hl7_sender (PIMS)"]

  SENDER --> MPI["MPI"]
  CHEMO_SENDER --> MPI
  PIMS_SENDER --> MPI
```

## Repository Structure

```
Integration-Hub-Beta/
├── README.md                    # This file
├── .gitignore                   # Git ignore rules
├── .github/                     # GitHub workflows and configurations
├── ca-certs/                    # Custom CA certificates for corporate networks
├── shared_libs/                 # Shared libraries used across services
│   ├── health_check_lib/        # Common health check functionality
│   ├── message_bus_lib/         # Service Bus communication library
│   └── processor_manager_lib/   # Message processing management
├── local/                       # Local development environment
├── pipeline-ado/                # Azure DevOps pipeline configurations
└── [Service Components]/        # Individual microservices (see below)
```

## Core Components

### HL7 Services

The platform handles HL7 message processing through specialized microservices:

**`hl7_server/`**

- Generic HL7 message receiving server via TCP/MLLP. Also provides acknowledgment responses back to source systems. Other server variants for different business flows (PHW, Paris, Chemocare, PIMS, etc.) reuse or extend this service to implement flow-specific logic while keeping common behaviour centralized.

**`hl7_transformer/`**

- PHW (Public Health Wales) message transformation service.
- Subscribes to PHW-specific messages from the service bus and transforms relevant datetime fields to an MPI format.

**`hl7_chemo_transformer/`**

- Chemocare system message transformation service.
- Subscribes to Chemocare-specific messages from the service bus and transforms them to the HL7v2.5 format by applying Chemocare-specific business rules and data mappings, including mappings from the WRDS (Welsh Reference Data Service.)

**`hl7_pims_transformer/`**

- PIMS (Patient Information Management System) message transformation service.
- Subscribes to PIMS-specific messages from the service bus and transforms them to the HL7v2.5 format by applying PIMS-specific business rules and data mappings, including mappings from the WRDS.

**`hl7_sender/`**

- Message delivery service to target systems (primarily MPI - Master Patient Index).
- Handles connection management and retry logic for reliable delivery.
- Provides delivery confirmation and error handling.

**`hl7_mock_receiver/`**

- Mock receiver for testing and development.
- Simulates target system endpoints (e.g. MPI).
- Provides a realistic testing environment for end-to-end validation.

Each transformer is specialized for its source system's data format and business rules, while the server and sender provide common ingestion and delivery capabilities across all integration profiles.

### Data Flow Profiles

The system supports multiple healthcare system integration profiles:

- **PHW to MPI**
- **Paris to MPI**
- **Chemocare to MPI**
- **PIMS to MPI**

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Python 3.13
- **Package Management**: [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Message Bus**: [Azure Service Bus](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-messaging-overview) (with local emulator support)
- **Database**: Azure SQL Edge (for local development)
- **Architecture**: Microservices with event-driven messaging
- **Cloud Platform**: Azure (cloud-native design)

## Local Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop
- WSL enabled (Windows only)
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For comprehensive local setup instructions, see [`local/README.md`](local/README.md).

## Development

### Shared Libraries

The `shared_libs/` directory contains common functionality:

- **`health_check_lib/`** - Standardized health check endpoints
- **`message_bus_lib/`** - Azure Service Bus integration and messaging patterns
- **`processor_manager_lib/`** - Message processing orchestration and error handling
- **`event_logger_lib/`** - Azure Monitor / Application Insights event logging library

### Service Structure

Each service follows a consistent structure:

```
service_name/
├── Dockerfile              # Container build configuration
├── pyproject.toml          # Python project configuration
├── uv.lock                 # Dependency lock file (generated by UV)
├── service_name/           # Source code
├── tests/                  # Unit and integration tests
└── README.md               # Service-specific documentation
```

### Code Quality

The project uses:

- [**Ruff**](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) - Fast Python linter and formatter
- [**MyPy** ](https://github.com/python/mypy)- Static type checking
- [**Bandit**](https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit) - Security linter, detects common security issues in Python code
- [**unittest**](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html) - Unit testing framework

## Deployment

### Azure DevOps Pipelines

The `pipeline-ado/` directory contains build pipelines for the [services listed](#HL7-Services).

#### **Release & Validation**:

- `release-apps.yml` - Application deployment pipeline
- `pr-validation.yml` - Pull request validation
- `templates/` - Reusable pipeline templates

### Environment Configuration

Each service can be configured through environment files in the `local/` directory:

- `phw-hl7-server.env`
- `phw-hl7-transformer.env`
- `mpi-hl7-sender.env`
- `mpi-hl7-mock-receiver.env`
- And profile-specific configurations...

## Security & Compliance

- Designed for sensitive clinical data handling
- Secure-by-design architecture principles
- Supports corporate network configurations
- Implements proper SSL/TLS certificate management
- Event-driven architecture enables comprehensive audit trails
- Cloud-native security controls and monitoring

## Contributing

1. Follow the established service structure
2. Include comprehensive tests
3. Update documentation
4. Align with secure-by-design principles

## Related repositories

- [Terraform](https://github.com/DHCW-Digital-Health-and-Care-Wales/Integration-Hub-Terraform)
- [Automated tests](https://github.com/DHCW-Digital-Health-and-Care-Wales/Integration-Hub-tests)

---

**Note**: This is a beta version of the Integration Hub platform. Please report any issues or feedback to help improve the system and support DHCW's digital transformation mission.
